# Get-and-clean-data-project

This project is to collect, work with, and clean a data set that is from measuring people activity by wearing smartphones. The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers, and each person performed six activities(WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone on the waist. The obtained dataset is partitioned into two sets: training data and test data. This project will merge the training and the test sets to create one data set. And only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation are extracted for the merged dataset. The activities in the data set need to use descriptive activity names, and the name of the variables in the data set need to be descriptive. Finally we will use the merged data set to create a new tiday data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.(The full description of the data set information can be found at this link: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones. The original data can be downloaded from this link:https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip )

The file "run_analysis.R" in the repo is a R script to perform the project requirements. The R script first read in all the needed data files, and then merge the data in training and test dataset, lable the variable with descriptive name, use the activity name to name the activity and extract the measurements that contains mean and std in variable name to create a merged data set. Finally I use the merged data set to create a data set with the average of each variable and each subject. The new created data set has 180 obervations and 81 variables. It is write into a file called "MeanBySubAct.txt"

The file "codebook.txt" in the repo is description for each variable of the new data set the run_analysis.R generated.
